His
age might have been a factor. His health might have
been a factor. These leaders in the communist bloc
tend to be elderly men who have survived in very
rough political failures, and they tend to be not
robust in their health. He also, Hillbrook, was
also a very hardline communist, a very
unpresentable in a way, someone that people in the
West didn't like. And it may have been just decided
that as a response of the time that it was a good
somebody else come on, but I don't remember that it
was a dispute over an issue or anything like that.
Do you think the Russians used Berlin as an
incentive for the U.S. to get involved in SALT? No,
I don't think so. I think Berlin, as an issue, stood
on its own merits, had to do with their long-term
stabilization of of Eastern Europe and so forth.
To some extent, you might say, these things are all
interrelated, but I just don't
I'm not sure it would have anything directly
involved as impact. I think it would indicate at
the highest strategic level to the Soviets that
events were unfolding
And that any sign of a ruckus or coming together of
the Chinese and the Americans and so forth was not a
good thing for the Soviets. So they would have not
liked it and so forth. But what they were doing in
Europe, particularly with reference to Berlin,
was moving in the right direction anyway.
made a big cooptie-doo out of this. They thought
this was something great. Whether it was wise or
not, it's hard to say. Because you see, you have a
lot of Soviet presence anyway, as far as security
is concerned. You have to assume that they've got
millions, not millions, but lots of spies there, a
lot of agents there. They come in there.
So it appeared to be necessary or something that
was going to make the agreement possible. And it
could have been a lot worse than that, I think. We
could have probably given up a lot more than that. I
don't know what they've gotten out of it. I don't
know what they get out of that.
What are the secret protocols?
the russians that that group there was neo-nazis
or something oh yeah okay yeah okay well these are
some crazy people over there crazy political
agitators uh and i can't remember what they were
doing but uh it it would have been all right see we
have
that we would try to restrict the travel of these
bad people, sort of like the Ku Klux Klan, but
politically, you know, neo-Nazis. I can't
remember that, but again, it would have been quite
a
I think that it was whether all the governments
agreed that they were prepared to act to implement
the concept that they taught in a real way, in a
practical way. We all had problems. Assuringly,
we had problems with Berlin.
issue arose was valuable to us. Also, as I said, we
had been pursuing the other policy that Germany
was only one Germany, Germany was undivided,
etc., that East Germany was not a real government,
and so forth. And we really hadn't gotten very far
with it. Both sides were stonewalling. And I think
and come up with an agreement that did in effect
was so much greater than you got from an individual
spy that they felt it was
important to us to have our man back. They had not,
Abel had not spoken, he had not
was an important agent, very important. And he was
cooperating as a
that if he had revealed them to the Soviets,
something would have been compromised. Somebody
would have been harmed, or certain installations
would have been compromised. So they were
confident at that time
and do something he would not normally. So there
are a lot of factors involved,
not accept or they were tried out on us. Now this
young man Mackinnon was an army captain and he did
work for either the counter intelligence
and power. Power was what we really wanted. But we
thought we could, we thought we had the Soviets
where they would give us more than one. We thought
we could get more than power. We thought they
wanted them badly enough. So that's the way we
maneuvered. What happened to Mackinac? They
eventually got him out. Oh, did they? Yeah. I can't
remember the circumstances
whether they
So we did that. All right.